Made it!
Hey, Bonnie, slow it down.
You could hurt yourself.
I'm fine. I'm fine.
Look at these decorations.
Maybe it's a festival.
[all gasping]
Hurry up. Come on.
They sure are in a hurry.
‐ Hi.
‐ Anybody here?
[all gasping]
Hello and welcome
to the Pokémon Center.
[all gasping]
What can I do for you?
Of course.
You must be new here.
You've arrived
right in the middle
of our Gourgeist Festival.
‐ Gourgeist Festival?
‐ That's right.
All the townsfolk
simply adore it.
See? Everyone likes
to dress up in costumes.
[EMPHATIC]
Whee! That sounds like fun.
That's what those kids
were doing.
Do you think maybe
we could join in too?
‐ Please do.
‐ Awesome.
Let's all do it.
What do you think
we should dress up as?
You just leave that to me.
[laughing]
[DELIGHTED]
Chespin, you look great.
Ludi. Colo. Yay!
Wow. You look so cute
as a Corphish.
Ta‐da. I'm a Florges.
[HAPPY]
If you're not holding
your ears down
you won't look as much
like a Psyduck.
[HOPEFUL]
Yes. Everybody ready
for the Gourgeist Festival?
CLEMONT/BONNIE/ASH/SERENA
Yeah.
♪ You're just a kid on a quest ♪
♪ To be the best
of the best ♪
♪ Someday you're destined
for power and glory ♪
♪ You know you're up
to the test ♪
♪ There's only one way
to tell this story ♪
♪ Be a Hero ♪
♪ Be a hero ♪
♪ All the power is at your
command ♪
♪ Face your fears
and show you're a hero ♪
♪ The future of the world
is in your hand ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪♪
ASH/CLEMONT/SERENA/BONNIE
"A Festival Trade!"
JESSIE
"A Festival Farewell."
NARRATOR Our heroes continue
on their way to Anistar City
where Ash will battle for his
seventh Kalos Gym badge.
‐ Wow.
‐ So pretty.
Hi. Here you go.
What's this?
Oh, see, here
in the Gourgeist Festival
we all trade yummy treats
with one another.
So it's more than costumes.
Wow. Well, in that case, here.
For you.
[both gasping]
‐ Thank you.
‐ I brought plenty for everyone.
Yeah. Then let's trade
a whole lot.
[EXCITED]
Oh, boy. Let's see
how much we can trade.
[EXCITED]
Pikachu's here too.
It's almost like they created
this festival just for us.
This Banette..
Yeah,
this Banette costume rocks.
The only problem is it's hard
to talk with the zipper zipped.
[EMPHATIC]
Dressing up like Pikachu
is your thing.
Wearing that costume
a second time signals a trend.
[EMPHATIC]
Alright,
let's seize the moment
and grab Pikachu
once and for all.
Yes, let's.
[EXCITED]
[chuckles]
Excellent.
A truly remarkable Pumpkaboo.
[CURIOUS]
Here. Take a look at this,
Prince Pumpkaboo.
[IMPRESSED]
Do you like what you see?
[PLEASED]
First off, when do you think
we should strike?
[CHANTING]
[all gasping]
‐ Who are they?
‐ 'Don't look at me.'
JAMES
Pokémon perhaps?
Who or what are you?
We don't have any treats.
‐ Gourgeist, that's enough.
‐ Aah!
I'm so very sorry
if we frightened you.
I'm the steward
of that castle you see there.
I'm here on behalf of the count
who as lord of the castle would
like you to pay him a visit.
You're kidding, right?
Oh, no. We have
a fine dinner waiting as well.
It might be more fun to grab
Pikachu after a good meal.
Right with you.
We'd love to take you up
on your offer.
I'm sorry for the short notice.
Count Pumpka's the name.
I trust our
sudden invitation was fine?
JESSIE
'Lovely.'
I've asked you all here
for a single, simple reason.
'I have something to discuss
regarding your Pumpkaboo.'
My Pumpkaboo?
It's a very rare Pumpkaboo,
indeed.
Why, I've never seen
one so large before.
We've got a rare Pumpkaboo?
I'll do research.
'Pumpkaboo come
in all different sizes.'
'Apparently, yours
is the super‐sized one.'
That's news to me.
Actually, my prince laid
its royal eyes
on your Pumpkaboo first.
[CURIOUS]
[INTRIGUED]
The prince would like
to become friends.
Friends? Don't tell me
you're a girl.
[SURPRISED]
You didn't know that.
No. So sue me. Huh?
[chuckles]
It seems to me we're holding
all of the cards, right?
We've got the advantage too.
Let's make good use of it.
Good, meaning what?
My dear count.
I have a teensy‐weensy favor
to ask of you.
Our Pumpkaboo is being chased
by a group of very bad people.
Oh, my. Though it's so lovely,
I'm not surprised.
They're villains who enjoy
stealing other people's Pokémon.
They've even stolen one of our
favorite Pokémon already.
Dear. What Pokémon
would that be?
‐ Pikachu.
‐ Pikachu?
[all gasping]
This is simply our Inkay
dressed up as Pikachu.
And now they're coming back
after my Pumpkaboo.
It's just wrong.
Please, Count.
Bring the hammer of justice down
on their pointy, crooked heads.
Please help our little Pikachu
to be returned to us.
And if you do, then perhaps..
Just perhaps..
You're so right. Despicable
criminals must be punished.
Thank you.
A royally wise choice.
Say. That was sheer brilliance.
Now we'll be able to steal
Pikachu and enjoy
a sumptuous meal
all at the very same time.
Multitasking. Yeah.
[EMPHATIC]
BONNIE
Look at all I got.
Now,
don't eat all that at once.
Hey, I'm not dumb.
[all gasping]
Who's that?
POKEDEX
Gourgeist, the Pumpkin Pokémon
and the evolved form
of Pumpkaboo.
Gourgeist wander through
town at the new moon
surrounding their prey with
their arms, which resemble hair.
Who are you?
I want you to hand over
that Pikachu peacefully
you criminals.
‐ Pikachu?
‐ What do you mean?
Gourgeist, Shadow Ball.
[SHADOW BALL MOVE]
Hey. Cut it out.
This has to be
a misunderstanding.
[ATTACK]
Iron Tail!
[IRON TAIL MOVE]
Now, Bunnelby, dig.
[DIG MOVE]
Bunnelby, Mud Shot.
[MUD SHOT MOVE]
Alright, Pancham, go.
Use Stone Edge.
[STONE EDGE MOVE]
[PAINED]
Shadow Ball, now.
[SHADOW BALL MOVE]
[SURPRISED]
[PAINED]
[SHADOW BALL MOVE]
‐ Pancham, no!
‐ Bunnelby.
[ATTACK]
[coughing]
STEWARD
'Now, we'll be taking'
'that Pikachu back.'
What? No way. Pikachu's my..
Hey. Come back right now.
Pikachu.
[URGENT]
[all gasping]
Pikachu?
But you heard
what that man said.
He said he was taking
Pikachu back.
[CONFUSED]
‐ I'm glad you're alright.
‐ Bunnelby's okay too.
Pancham too.
‐ But, Chespin's gone.
‐ Huh?
You don't think they could
have stolen Chespin, do you?
[all gasping]
[CONFUSED]
[SCARED]
‐ Here. Your Pikachu, ma'am.
‐ Success. We caught Pikachu.
Quiet down.
We're so glad to have you back,
Pikachu dear.
[grunts]
Since I held up my end
of the bargain
it is now your turn.
So please, give me
what you agreed to.
[URGENT]
ASH
Where's Chespin?
[URGENT]
In that castle, up there?
Right.
We'll get you out of there,
Chespin, promise.
GROUP
Who's that Pokémon?
It's Gourgeist.
[EXCITED]
Now, if I may be so bold
there's something I'd like
to discuss with you.
[FLIRTATIOUS]
[SURPRISED]/[SHY]
I would like your Pumpkaboo
to marry Prince Pumpkaboo
and become Princess Pumpkaboo.
Why, of course.
[ALARMED]
Great. We'll trade Pumpkaboo
for Pikachu.
ASH
Stop!
I want my Chespin back, now.
‐ They're villains.
‐ Is that so? You're criminals.
What are you talking about?
Stop your whispering
and give us back Chespin.
‐ What Chespin?
‐ I don't understand.
I mean that Chespin.
The one in the cage.
[FRUSTRATED]
What is this?
Chespin was in disguise
all the time.
Steward.
Count, I will retrieve
Pikachu straight away.
Gourgeist.
[panting]
It's them again.
Pikachu, let's go.
[DETERMINED]
Bunnelby, let's fix this.
Right, Braixen, come out.
[PROTECTIVE]
[SHADOW BALL MOVE]
Dodge and use Electro Ball.
[EXERTION]/[ELECTRO BALL MOVE]
[ELECTRO BALL MOVE]
[all gasping]
Shadow Ball.
[SHADOW BALL MOVE]
Use Mud Shot.
[MUD SHOT MOVE]
Gourgeist, use Shadow Ball, now.
[SHADOW BALL MOVE]
Dodge, then Flamethrower!
[FLAMETHROWER MOVE]
This isn't over.
[ANGRY]
Use Hidden Power.
[HIDDEN POWER MOVE]
Quick, Thunderbolt.
[THUNDERBOLT MOVE]
Bunnelby, Wild Charge.
[WILD CHARGE MOVE]
[PAINED]
Get Pikachu.
What are you waiting for?
‐ Now.
‐ Sir.
Give me back my Chespin.
[all gasping]
You villains will be quiet
until our business is concluded.
So, now that Pikachu
has been caught
let's continue with what we
were talking about.
I don't remember.
That's called
a Pokémon Trade Machine.
We will trade my Pokémon
for your Pumpkaboo.
Trade for my Pumpkaboo?
As you promised.
Pumpkaboo and I have shared
countless hours together.
Memories, the good times
and the bad.
You don't just throw
all of that away, you know.
Now look. Our friendship
cannot be traded away.
[TOUCHED]
‐ Whoa.
‐ Wait a minute.
I know that this cage
has been electrified
but if we can short it out..
That's a great idea.
After considering
what you've said..
...then how about making
a trade for this Mawile?
[EXCITED]
I wouldn't do that
if you paid me.
My Pumpkaboo and I
are connected by our hearts.
The bond between Pokémon
and Trainer is everlasting.
[SENTIMENTAL]
I think you should be aware
Mawile is one of the few Pokémon
who can Mega Evolve.
Mega Evolve?
Mega Evolve!
Step on it.
Right. So let's make
that trade.
[SHOCKED]
What about the bond between
Pokémon and Trainer?
[ANGRY]
[SHEEPISH]
Pumpkaboo likes the prince too
and wants to stay here
so you should go ahead
and make with that trade.
‐ Oh, that's just wonderful.
‐ Of all the nerve.
And after everything
I've done for you.
[ANGRY]
What?
[UNCOMFORTABLE]
You know,
this is getting a tad ugly.
MEOWTH
And how.
Fine with me. It's a deal.
[ANGRY]
‐ Alright. Then let's trade.
‐ Ready.
[all gasping]
COUNT
'Trade complete.'
[Jessie scoffs]
Huh.
Excellent. Now it's time.
Pumpkaboo, come forth.
[EXPECTANT]
[EXCITED]/[CONFUSED]
[gasps]
‐ Is that what I think?
‐ Maybe it's evolving.
Pumpkaboo. You picked
a fine time to do that.
[PLEASED]
Pumpkaboo's a Gourgeist now.
Indeed. It must have undergone
an Exchange Evolution.
[FRIENDLY]
[UPSET]/[DISINTERESTED]
Aah!
This is awful.
The prince preferred
Pumpkaboo before it evolved.
JESSIE/JAMES
What did you say?
This is no joke.
You said that we'd trade
so I did it in spite
of my pain.
In fact,
you really couldn't wait.
Just because it evolved,
you want to call it off?
‐ Now please.
‐ True, true.
[EMPHATIC]
But I can dig
how Prince Pumpkaboo feels.
The very same thing happened
to me back in the day.
Ahoy. Now,
hear this, little prince.
Do you have any idea how
wonderful my Pumpkaboo has been?
I remember when I was
burning up with a fever
Pumpkaboo took care of me
the whole night through.
Huh!
[PLEASED]
Grating berries and then
spoon‐feeding them to me.
[CONCERNED]
When everyone else
forgot my birthday
Pumpkaboo was the only one
who celebrated with me.
[WARM]
Thank you. You're so sweet.
Now that I think about it,
Pumpkaboo and I
are meant to be together
until the end of time.
This is a story of love between
a Trainer and her Pokémon.
I'm sorry, Gourgeist.
I'm sorry
for what I said before.
This is so confusing.
Give it back. What good
is Gourgeist to you now anyway?
I suppose so.
[laughs]
Aw. You're home.
So come on out, Gourgeist.
[HAPPY]
Gourgeist.
[TOUCHED]
I'm sorry.
Let's stay together forever.
[TOUCHED]
Mm‐hm, it doesn't get
any better than this, you know?
This is the true bond
between Pokémon and Trainer.
[EMOTIONAL]
Guess all's well that ends well.
Yes, and ending well
ends well for us.
This was simply an issue between
the two of them
that couldn't be resolved.
Yeah, whatever.
We'll be on our way.
Remember, we got a lovely meal,
so it was worthwhile.
And our bond grew stronger.
ASH
Stop.
[all gasping]
We want Chespin back.
Chespin?
‐ Huh?
[DEVASTATED]
What do you mean? I'll have you
know it belongs to..
Huh?
That's a fake Pikachu.
I know what that means.
Alright, you need to get back.
You guys.
So it was you after all.
I get it.
Everything makes sense now.
TEAM ROCKET
'Woo‐hoo!'
Prepare for trouble,
you aren't so smart.
And make it double,
we've made it an art.
To protect the world
from devastation.
To unite all people
within our nation.
To denounce the evils
of truth and love.
To extend our reach
to the stars above.
‐ Jessie.
‐ And James.
Team Rocket blasts off
at the speed of light.
Surrender now or prepare
for one confusing fight.
Meowth, that's right.
[EMPHATIC]
‐ Team Rocket.
‐ Team Rocket?
Bad guys who steal
other people's Pokémon.
Bad guys? So they were
the real villains after all.
Pikachu. Iron Tail.
[IRON TAIL MOVE]
Heads up, you Twerps.
Listen and learn.
If you depend on Mega Evolution
your Pokémon will never ever
get stronger.
Pay attention.
It's most important
to deepen the bond
between Trainer and Pokémon.
Right?
I fully realize
what she said is true.
But who needs it coming out
of her face?
Having said that, let's deepen
our bond with Shadow Ball.
Dodge it!
Alright, time for Leech Seed.
Quick, Pikachu, Iron Tail.
[IRON TAIL MOVE]
Okay, Inkay. Psybeam, go.
[PSYBEAM MOVE]
Bunnelby, dodge it.
Double Slap.
[DOUBLE SLAP MOVE]
[all gasping]
[EXERTION]
Chespin! Are you alright?
[ECSTATIC]
That's great.
No holding back now.
Flamethrower, now.
Quick. Pikachu, Thunderbolt.
[THUNDERBOLT MOVE]
[screaming]
Blasting off
doesn't bother me this time
because my Gourgeist
is here with me.
[AFFECTIONATE]
Well, well, isn't that sweet.
And wholesome.
[EMPHATIC]
TEAM ROCKET
'Out of here!'
I do hope all of you
will forgive me.
I was tricked.
But there's no excuse for it.
'Please let me try
to make it up to you.'
[laughs]
Well, no prob.
STEWARD
Here you go.
Wow. The soup bowls
look just like Gourgeist.
Looks great.
‐ Give it a try.
‐ You bet.
Okay, here goes.
COUNT
The Gourgeist Festival
always ends
with a fireworks display.
‐ Hooray! So pretty.
‐ Huh!
Best fireworks ever.
[IMPRESSED]
NARRATOR After nearly losing
Chespin to Team Rocket
our heroes are all back
together once again.
And, as soon as
the Gourgeist Festival
and all of its fun over,
the journey will continue.
[theme music]